good morning YouTube at Saturday morning
June 23rd which means it is the day for
our next full garden tour I have usually
done these videos around 6:30 a.m. but
when I woke up this morning it was
storming perfectly I mean just terrible
thunderstorm so it's about 8:30 right
now it's a little later but nice and
overcast and then we are about to go
check out a very very happy and well
water garden
[Music]
I haven't actually harvested this much
of anything out of the garden for about
the last 36 hours because I knew we were
supposed to get some really bad storms
and I wanted to make sure that
everything was tied up and supported
that needed it so I didn't get any
broken plants during heavy rain so we
might find some really large fruits
today because generally speaking this
time of year especially when there is
rain which we had rain a couple days ago
and it's hot so things grow so fast they
literally just like they can go from
normal sized to incredibly large to
unusable like in the matter of a day
it's gonna check how much rain we got
but no rain gauge did not make it
through that storm standing upright I
have another one down here but my kids
play with it so I think it's probably
pretty unlikely that we got three inches
of rain two and a half maybe I don't
know oh yeah things are looking really
big all right let's go to the beginning
and check it out I've got my hard to
gather in and I've also got I almost
slipped in the mud I've also got my room
apron um which these two things I use
regularly I guess if you had a smaller
garden you could get by with having
either but I like to have both so in
this first row these are supposed to be
like a bush winter squash and if you
notice they're definitely lining which
it's cool they have space to do that but
thought it was kind of funny look
there's baby this is a sweet dumpling
variety and the packaging of the seeds I
got said it was a bush but clearly not
the case which I actually don't mind I
think it'll be really cool I'm going to
move this cattle panel out of the way
we're actually going to go ahead and put
up the arch tomorrow with this we
haven't done it yet because we weren't
able to do it during the hours that it
would be easy to video we really wanted
to do it to show you guys but um that
that vine is gonna grab hold of the
fence here crawl all over it'll be
really neat looking these squash are
also really starting to take off I need
to get my trellis up for these ASAP as
well I did a video when I planted this
row of sunflowers most of them did not
do well probably has something to do
with how much my kids walk down here
there's a few little a few little
scratch lers here on the end
I thought about replanting them but the
weeds are pretty intense so I was just
gonna not so we could we did it
and my structures leaning hard that was
a hard rain we had I have to see if I
can
think that in a little more this ground
is really soft these tomatoes are
looking good though we put these in a
lot later than the ones in the ground so
the ones in the ground are starting to
put off ripe fruit and these are really
just starting to set most of their fruit
I think it'll be really good that we
kind of unintentionally successions
sowed Tomatoes this year because of the
fact that it's so hot here I think we're
already in the mid 90s and it will get
more hot the tomatoes really start to
struggle I think it'll be interesting to
see how they do at different stages and
I think it may help us stay in ripe
fruit longer to have them you know like
staggered in the age of the plant the
little plants on this in bed are
starting to fill out some but it's
really not planted very densely and I'm
waiting to fill it in with some cooler
weather varieties here in a couple of
months so when I go to plant for fall
these two beds are going to get the most
attention and really some of that third
one there's some space over on the other
side of those Tomatoes because this is
where the most spaces are we've got a
lot of melons starting to set fruit that
is the shade
I'm pretty sure that's a Charleston
green knowing you kind of see the weeds
are a little intense on our rows here
the melons are starting to sprawl that
one got a little sick I think I'm going
to go ahead and tear it out let's say so
far this year my greatest struggle as
far as disease or pest goes has been
bacterial wilt from cucumber beetles
where you have just a completely healthy
plant you notice cucumber beetles on it
you know you're picking them off but
there's wait many of them and then the
next thing you know your plant looks
like this where you know I mean just
like large portions of it or just wiped
out the bean plants down here starting
to get some blossoms those beautiful
blossoms in different shades of purple
oh wow look
we have squash so here is a Iselle
squash and I told you we might have some
pig fruits I noticed that this had some
flowers on the feather David that's a
pretty that's a pretty big thing there's
one more small one on here and I'm gonna
check on it later tonight and maybe you
let it get a little more sized before I
cut it there are a lot of different
types of zucchini and you know other
than the typical you know dark green
what you're used to seeing in the stores
now that is a black beauty zucchini is
typically what you you know what people
are more used to and it is one of my
favorites I still grow it however there
are a lot of really different neat
zucchini squashes or you know what we
know is you know like what we are used
to with yellow squash these are all just
different summer squash varieties that's
calkas L there's one called Caserta Mero
squashes comes and yellow and white and
they're all so easy to grow now most
people that I know at some point lose
their squash to pests there's vine bores
different wilts different things like
that so like I said in the video last
week we iced Accession so those and
because they only take 50 days to start
producing fruit and that way I just make
sure I've got new plants reaching
maturity you know staggered out
throughout the season that other benefit
of that is is that you get to try lots
of different times without being
overwhelmed by them because squash its
kind of hard to preserve you can freeze
it but it's not really the best in the
world
usually when we freeze it what we do
with it after that is use it for things
like casseroles or breads like zucchini
bread but as far as like just sauteing
it stuff after it's frozen it's not
great we use it to eat fresh make breads
and then if
we freeze it it's for the purpose of
using it as casseroles you can use it in
a replacement of noodles by getting like
a special tool that makes I don't know
people call them zoodles like zucchini
noodles
I love carbs so I don't need a lot of
noodles down here on the end our
sunflowers are coming around again
they're a little spotty you know I used
all the sunflower seeds that I had in
packages and of course you can just
plant black oil sunflower seeds and they
will grow into sunflowers which is
evidence and our horse pasture because
there are sunflowers growing all over
the place because we feed them black oil
sunflower seeds and so they're coming
out in their manure and growing but this
is just a mix because over the years I
had accumulated a lot of packages so
some of the seeds were very old I'm not
surprised to see that about half of them
didn't come up but I am very pleased
that the ones that came up are doing so
well I'm really excited to see all those
sunflowers big tall and blooming it's
gonna be really beautiful down here on
the end
these runner beans are really looking
good and healthy and here on the other
side I've got some tomato plants this
one I've not pruned a single branch off
of this plant I've just let it do its
thing really just because I was curious
about what it would do as you can tell
it's really huge it's relatively healthy
for having such a little airflow I'm
kind of seeing a little bit of browning
in these bottom leaves it's got a couple
of fruits on it I'm just mostly curious
to see how that goes that's a white
beauty tomato plant and I have a few
other that needs some steaks just
haven't gotten this bed's been wildly
neglected these are all young tomato
plants on this fence that I need to come
out here I'll probably come out here
today and go ahead and tie them up to
the fence
here we've got more beans setting pretty
dark purple blossoms these are called a
it's blooming Prairie and this is a
really neat variety if you are a seed
collector if you look up blooming
Prairie bush beans they're a purple snap
bean so you eat them fresh but when you
dry them to save the seeds the seeds are
these little purple they're like they
look like a light purple gradient to a
dark purple they're really really pretty
I have a few kinds of seed varieties
that I was given just a handful of them
from friends and like here I've got you
know one two three four five six seven
of these little bean plants so I won't
get a ton from them and the ones I do
get will probably eat some to see how we
like them but I'm probably going to save
a lot of those seeds so that next year
if I really like them I can plant you
know a substantial row and actually get
a really substantial harvest off of them
down here I have let's see there's two
that came up I've got one large one and
one small one these are edamame and I
planted more than this but only these
--piece who came up just a couple of
them but this one's starting to set some
flowers that's not something I've ever
successfully grown before last year I
planted it but I planted it in an area
where it got really overshadowed by the
tomatoes next to it and so it got choked
out this year that should have plenty of
space and edamame is wanted here -
favorite things to eat so I'm really
hoping that that does well and that we
get to you know enjoy that and hopefully
next year I can grow more of it lots of
little pepper plants down here that are
pretty puny you know a little little bit
of fruit setting this is an eggplant
they got so ravaged by flea beetles that
I thought it would surely die I pulled
out a lot of them but it has started
bringing up some new Lee
so it might end up coming along after
all that's a weed here are my my giant
black beans that I received in the mail
from a gardener in Wales and I'm really
nervous about these it would appear by
their blossoms that there are some form
of runner being they have these red
blossoms which is what you know scarlet
runner beans are and that might not be
the case there could be just like normal
beans with red blossoms however a lot of
the blossoms are falling off without
setting any beans I actually don't see
any beans set on these plants yet and
runner beans don't do well in the heat
which I did not realize that that's what
these were when I planted them look I
spoke too soon that's a bean it's gonna
be okay it's so nervous I mean I was
given like six or seven of these
incredibly cool beans that this man has
been cultivating in his garden in you
know wales for 50 years and I'm like
okay this is my shot and like I am so
cautious like I am seriously I like you
know I have a hard time making decisions
I am so cautious and I just went for it
and planted all of these and so I'm like
oh gosh I hope this works
I probably will just eat enough of these
to taste this year and you know see how
they are and then I'll probably saving
the rest of the seeds because they're
pretty irreplaceable honestly I mean
like I might be able to write that man
back and ask him for some more I saved
his address just in case but I really
want to get them to grow well I'm so
excited that there's a bean on that
here's our little Keuka melons on their
slow start if you remember two weeks ago
they were just barely two leaves but
that is a really slow growth however
with my other plants they were the same
way just really slow start and when they
took off they took off so that concludes
those first two rows and now we can walk
down the tomatoes so I came through here
yesterday with this green like stretchy
Tod tape I just get this at Home Depot
it's 297 for a roll and it's what I like
to use I've heard suggestion of like
tearing up pieces of fabric or pantyhose
or whatever to tie your tomatoes to
trellises and I think those are all
really great ideas I just have a lot of
plants and this is really easy
so I came through yesterday and tied up
everything to make sure it's secure for
the storm this one appears to have
fallen down but I might not have tied it
very well and this is really heavy it's
got a lot of fruit on it
see this orange ox heart now I've
already pulled one fruit off of this
plant that was ready these are really
large
it's a paste type ox hearts are really
meeting here's another one that's kind
of getting close the flavor of that one
was very typical of a paste tomato it
had like a pretty good tomato flavor
being orange it was pretty low acid and
I liked it pretty good I think it would
have been really good for sauce or it
would have had some other flavors added
to it it would have been a good base for
that but it wasn't my favorite as far as
like having sandwiches or that sort of
thing I have had one ripe white beauty
and I'm watching these others because I
think they're kind of starting to turn a
little bit it's hard to tell on the
white ones but that is a really good
tomato it's very fruity and when I first
heard people use that term to describe
Tomatoes I was like what does that mean
it's like a fruity tomato that actually
tasted more like fruit than it tasted
like tomato is very sweet here I've got
this Caspian pink which I'm gonna go
ahead and pick it feels ready Oh
ready to me a little bit of a blemish in
it but overall that's a that's a pretty
fruit I'm actually not going to put
these big tomatoes in the hod or in my
root apron I want to make sure they
don't get sweat squished and jostled and
I still have a lot of harvesting to do
so I'll put it on the table with that
cucumber that I picked yesterday back to
the tomato Rose we're getting a lot of
fruit starting to ripen so far we've
been coming down here just about every
day and like picking one more big ripe
tomato and you know eating tomato
sandwiches with them we saved a few the
other day we had our friends over on
Thursday night and so then everybody I
do understand watches I'm a little bit
of it tomato sandwich pusher it's like
my favorite thing I look forward to
tomato sandwiches all year and I won't
eat a store tomato because they just
taste like disappointment
yes a little doctor which is starting to
turn these are small for this last year
we had massive fruits from this more
like that unless I can't starting to
here's a custom Ludo Genovese which is a
really fluted Tomatoes you can see now
these these look like they grew from
face eiated blossoms which is where
there's an example of one
it's where multiple blossoms are kind of
fused together instead of like this
where that's a normal tomato blossom you
can see this has multiple fused together
and what you get with Fay ceated
blossoms is what's called cat facing and
you see this on a lot of heirlooms but
it's where these multiple blossoms are
essentially have the genetics to be
multiple tomatoes but they kind of fuse
together sort of conjoined and you get a
lot of what the ugly parts of heirlooms
and actually I am thinking that I may
start going through and pulling those
blossoms off not on mine ugly food I
like the character that heirlooms bring
to the table however when you're dealing
with so much cat facing a lot of the
times you have to cut away huge parts of
your fruit because it can get pockets of
like you know rotten bits and that sort
of thing so I would prefer my plant to
put energy into making fruits that I can
actually eat all of and these these are
all pretty heavily cat faced which I
guess that's just typical of this
variety but over here you can see that
um you know there are some that are not
like that this is also close to Ludo
Genovese like that one's not cat faced
at all here we've got this is a cow's
truly it's beginning to turn now it's
been very dry and then the last couple
days we've gotten a lot of rain which
means there's a lot of cracking going on
now you can avoid cracking and your
Tomatoes by watering regularly but you
can't control the rain so we have
watered very regularly it's been very
dry but we've maintained watering every
few days very deeply and so up until a
few days ago there was no cracking on
any of our Tomatoes and then we got that
first big rain and then last night we
got a lot more so it's okay
cracking if you got to keep an eye on it
because if you've got a really ripe
tomato and they get some cracks in it
you know it can start to rot so
sometimes if they start to crack it's
best to pull them and bring them in the
house if they're like halfway right but
you just kind of got to look at it a lot
of times like here you can see the
cracking on this one they sort of just
develop scabs and it may keep going I
keep growing and ripening and and it's
fine like you can see here's a little
bit I think those will be fine
you can even eat those places because
they're scabbing over so they won't rot
I'm planning on doing a separate video
giving tips on how to grow tomatoes I'm
kind of putting together all that
information now because I've done a
tremendous amount of research on how to
grow tomatoes well a lot of people start
their first home garden and they are
looking forward to eating the best
tomato that they've ever had in their
life and they go to the store they buy a
hybrid variety they put it in the ground
they water it every day and then when
they eat it they're like this doesn't
taste spectacular it tastes like you
know every tomato I've ever bought
that's because you have to do something
differently than the commercial growers
in order to get something different than
what the commercial growers are getting
I'll save a lot of it for that video
because I would like to be able to go
over it pretty in-depth and we still
have a lot of garden to get to this
morning however I will tell you two
things over watering your Tomatoes is
your biggest enemy when it comes to
flavor because essentially what happens
in tomatoes is they have you know all of
these sugars and if you're over watering
you're essentially diluting those sugars
however if you hold off the water it
actually causes a little bit of stress
on the plants
the reach to go deeper and it really
condenses and concentrates the flavor in
the fruit another thing is is if you are
planning on harvesting don't water and
then harvest harvest and then water now
there's going to be morning's like this
morning where we just got a whole lot of
rain and I've got ripe fruits hanging on
the vine so I'm going to go ahead and
pick them however it would be ideal if I
could pick them and then it could have
rained because essentially when your
plants a little bit dry the sugars and
that fruit are very concentrated and
that's when you're gonna get that really
sweet and intense tomato flavor got a
lot more down here on the end this is
called a moneymaker and this is one that
I actually really successfully pruned to
one vine pruning the one vine that's
like a square foot gardening method and
it's something that a lot of people
suggest doing and obviously you see a
lot of mix and my tomatoes the ones in
the ground are not prune that heavily
I've got some that I haven't pruned at
all
however on these rows I have really
tried to keep them relatively cut down
you can see there's not a lot of
branches on the lower you know 12 to 18
inches I like to keep those trimmed in
order to allow good airflow and keep the
plants from getting sick and here's one
you know a lot of them branched off and
I didn't get it in time and I just
didn't have the heart to cut off half
the plant however here's one that I did
prune from the beginning and you see
there's there's the stem that goes all
the way up there are no major offshoots
they've all been cut off and we've got
all of these plants growing in this one
single stem all of these fruits growing
one thing people often don't understand
whenever reading about planting raised
beds and the spacing of their plants is
that when you read advice that tells you
to space your plants really close
together that is pretty much always
contingent on the fact that you are
going to heavily prune those plants
I actually made that mistake last year I
planted
according to Square Foot Gardening
guidelines and then I did not prune
according to those guidelines and I
ended up with a lot of sickness because
there was no airflow and my beds and
plants choke each other out we did not
get the harvest that we would have
gotten but gardening is a learning
experience you know I think that you can
garden for 50 years and still not learn
everything I mean obviously you gain a
lot of experience as the years go by I
know so much more this year than I did
last year and the year before that here
are a couple of tomato plants that again
I have not pruned heavily but I'll show
you that I need to get in here and prune
because if you'll see all of this wilts
going on like that's not a good thing
see tomatoes need airflow or else they
get infection and right down here where
this is all so thick you see all those
wilted leaves if I don't get in here in
proven there's a good chance that I
could just lose these whole plants it's
better to cut away large portions of
your plant and keep the plant then not
cut it and ended up having to rip the
whole thing out these are getting pretty
soft
these two plants were sold to me the
seeds as Paul Robeson Morin is growing
fruits that look like Paul Robeson
supposed to want to spring foods that
are significantly smaller so I'm not
100% sure if maybe I ended up with an
accidental cross but they are both very
delicious back in this first bed we've
got atomic grape tomatoes and they're
really setting some fruit nicely I hear
a lot of people talking about being
excited on that one a lot of my barrage
has started to get sick and I've just
left it because it's like half the
plants dying away but half still doing
fine my first year to grow barrage in my
garden beds with everything else I read
that it is supposed to help repel tomato
hornworms at this point I would have to
say probably not so much I guess I could
take note on whether the plants that are
directly next to the barrage had horn
worms but yeah they did because there's
Verizon right next to those two Paul
Robeson's I just showed you and that
we've picked a lot of horn rooms off of
those plants so I don't know that that's
actually true that that actually helps
however barrage absolutely does attract
pollinators there are always bees on the
brush another benefit is is that it's a
very beautiful plant it adds color
within the garden which if you're
anything like me you do this not just
for the purpose of growing food but just
because you enjoy it and the beauty of
it it just is so fulfilling it's so
enriching so it's a beautiful plant and
it is fully edible
Viraj flowers and leaves you can eat
them no taste like cucumbers I've heard
people say they put them in ice cubes
and in drinks the texture is weird
they're kind of fuzzy so I don't know
the only time we've eaten them is to
kind of show people that you can so we
got a few more random Tomatoes over here
on this trellis they have not been
pruned very much to be honest just
because I haven't walked over there and
done it hey Daniel Daniel just walked
over from next door he's going to help
me milk the goats this morning so I can
do this tour for you guys since we're
getting such a late start due to this
storm
so Daniel recently made some major life
changes and lost a lot of weight you
want to tell you how much weight you've
lost in the last year I've lost 118
pounds awesome right so in that he has
started trying a lot of foods that he
would not have eaten before so before
this year
had you ever eaten Tomatoes no no and so
now what's your favorite tomatoes my
favorite tomato so far I don't know I
think it was the one yesterday what was
the one yesterday because you know I
don't know we had a mystery tomato that
was amazing I have no idea I think it's
a mix of some sort we're gonna save
seeds if we get another one I should
have saved the seeds of that one but was
so good we ate it I don't know very
delicious
so anyway Daniels trying lots of new
foods and we're super proud of him so I
want to brag on him to you guys for a
second and here are pink peas which I
need to go through here and pick these a
lot of them are getting big I've picked
one since last week whenever I showed
you guys I picked a handful then and
then I did again during the week they're
they're really good no the only thing
that stinks about colorful beans
I said peas a second ago these are beans
Tanya's pink potted bean you just eat
them like a snap bean the only thing
is that they turn green when you cook
them which is sad
these pink beans have given a pretty
nice amount every time that I've come
out and picked I've gotten a good
handful and there are more on here that
I'm just gonna leave because they're
small and I can pick them later and also
I kind of messed up and I missed some
and they're probably no good for eating
now they've just gotten real big and
bulgy so I'm just gonna leave them on
there and let them dry and save those
for the seeds I've done that a couple of
different beans that I missed the like
the window to pick them and so I was
like well I'll just leave those there
and and and let them completely finish
growing because whenever you save seeds
you you just let it stay on the line
until it you know the pod dries you
don't want to leave a whole lot to dry
because they don't stop putting off new
ones the more you pick the more you get
however if you leave you know like a
handful a few here and there it's not
gonna stop the production of the whole
plant I just saw something cool I was
talking to you guys about fused blossoms
check that out that is a monster I'm
gonna pull it off because there's just
no way that this could functionally form
into something healthy but that's crazy
look it's already started to set its
frankenfruit look at that see all the
little tomato sitting that's nuts
you have that thing that would have been
a huge huge tomato with a ton of cat
facing on it it probably would not have
had very much that was edible at all and
that crazy gardening so cool
- Terrans didn't do very well this year
but again this is another edible flower
that is a good companion plant to
tomatoes and peppers as far as ridding
pests a lot of people like these in
salads because they're so colorful and
they've got a real spicy taste and you
can also eat the greens they are also
you can eat them like salad greens as
well
here are Tabasco peppers which I some of
them look like they're getting pretty
close to being able to be picked there's
a whole bunch on these plants my
sunflowers have started opening up in
these beds and I feel like a flippin
genius for putting them there because
they're beautiful
here the kajari melons have just gone
wild I really need to get the what I'm
gonna use to support them which I had
produce bags in my cart on Amazon
someone had suggested pantyhose which I
kind of dismissed for cost purposes
because I was like why need so much
because I've got multiple trellises with
melons and squashes however then I
thought well maybe I'll do that so I can
go get them locally then I haven't so
here they are just to hang in and some
down here are getting pretty big these
don't get just a whole lot bigger than
this I get a little bit bigger they are
heavy and they're starting to smell good
this is my first year to grow melons on
a trellis and I've been kind of like
hesitant on whether I like it or not but
now that these are setting fruit and
they're doing so well I would say I do
very much like it I want to get some
support for these fruits and see how
they finish out and see how this plant
does like how it finishes but as of
right now I can say I'm liking growing
these melons on a trellis and the other
ones I have one is a very small variety
and one is getting kind of big the
bigger one I'm a little nervous about
but I think I like I think I like this
method noodle beans these things just
keep growing it's crazy I have picked so
many noodle beans I pickled some I found
our recipe for pickle noodle beans I
haven't tried it yet because when you
pickle something you generally want to
give it two weeks to develop its full
flavor it's only been like a week so
I'll let you know how that goes whenever
I open it and try it but it's pretty
because you just kind of curl them all
up in the jar and put
all the garlic and spices in the middle
and you know poor Brian over and then
can them so I guess you know you'd have
to like pickles to like that but I do
but I've given a lot of these away I'm
one of the only ones in my house that
eats fresh beans look at that pretty
tomato okay see that black spot that is
a horn worm poop which I'm not surprised
to see because I haven't picked horn
arms off for a couple of days so they're
probably gaining ground on me but I'll
put up here I suggest a video we did
find the trick of using a blacklight to
find horn worms and it is an incredible
tip it actually really works it is way
easier than trying to search for them in
a day and that has helped hugely as far
as managing hornworm damage last year I
lost so much to horn worms and this year
you know they they start to show a
little bit of signs occasionally we
haven't when we haven't checked in
several days but it's been a lot easier
to stay on topic
okay so I mentioned you know missing the
opportunity you know the window to pick
and then just leaving them to dry these
noodle beans had gotten a little big now
this is where you want to pick them when
they're tender and kind of so young and
so I left them and they were just
getting huge and now they're starting to
change color so it probably won't be
just a whole lot longer these really are
wonderfully prolific I have a really
nice flavor I did read however doing
research that you don't want to boil
them they are best sauteed and cooked in
oil because they get waterlogged really
easily you'll have not tried to boil
them because I read that so I was like
okay I'll take your word for it
however sauteed they're really good and
I'm kind of one of those people that
like when I find something that works I
just like to live there
I'll put these on top of our Hall at the
end so they don't get masked Cheryl okay
it's time to address the okra now I am
having a hard time catching the okra in
the right window it grows so
mind-blowing ly fast that I'll look at
it one day and I'll be like that's
really not big enough to pick and then
the next day it's unusable huge so I
think I might start picking it on the
smaller side because I feel like getting
it small and useful would be better than
waiting until it's huge and unusable the
wonderful thing about okra is that it
just keeps going I mean these plants
will be taller than me by the end of the
season and they will continue to produce
just without apology they just keep
going and if you look here every single
one of these is a blossom which means
every single one of those is an okra and
here are some massive ones that I missed
okra is something you definitely need
some scissors or some snips for because
it has really strong stems this is the
Texas Hill Country Kahn these are a
little bit big this is probably too
tough I'm gonna take it in and see what
I can do with it however whenever they
are small they're really small and I'm
gonna go ahead and cut them today the
little ones because I think I have
enough if I cut the small ones to
actually do something with it
I think that's probably about the ideal
size for this Friday it's really squatty
even whenever it gets big it's just a
short little guy
let's check the burgundy this variety
seems to be a little bit later and he's
not been putting on as much as the Hill
Country or the gene orange however it
does have really a nice you know long
thin fruits they stay pretty soft and
these are just beautiful plant as you
can see though they're quite a lot
taller than the Hill Country they have a
lot more branching and so far they've
put off a lot less okras this is
interesting last year I had some of my
burgundy okra right next door to my
clemson spineless okra and I saved some
of the seeds and this is a burgundy okra
and this is not however it's not a
Columbus - it's got a little bit of
color on it so it looks like we ended up
with across thanks to the bees I was
aware that that might happen but kind of
cool maybe it'll be a good crust we can
see if we can do it again if you notice
here the plant of the burgundy is very
red whereas this plant is quite mixed
between the two red and green so I think
what happened here is definitely a cross
between the burgundy and the Clemson
family here on the end of the bed with
this okra is the TP that has the Keuka
melons Mexican sour gherkins which as
you can see they've just carpeted this
out of the TP and they have begun
reaching through and taking over this
sinus well where there are a couple of
tomato plants growing now I have
obviously not put a lot
effort into these tomato plants they're
pretty wild and you're gonna learn about
me really quickly as we progress with
these garden tours into this time of
year I'd like to kind of see what
happens you know like I thoroughly
believe in just letting things do what
they're going to you know I try to prune
some and you know plant mindfully and
care for things mindfully but in a
situation like this you know if these
cucumber ones take over those tomatoes
then you know we'll just see what
happens
I got enough Tomatoes I can spare a
couple plants and honestly my votes on
the canals because these things are
intense this is only like four plants
and you know over there at the beginning
where the bean trellis is there's little
squirty plants that just seem to have
hardly grown at all in the last couple
weeks these started that way but when
they took off
they took off and look here I'm starting
to get some fruits they're not oops
they're not quite full-size yet but
they're getting close the bigger they
get definitely the more sour okay so I'm
back at the Dragons Heung bush beans we
harvested a lot of these last week and
they are pretty loaded again you'll
notice that pods that have more Sun they
tend to get a little more streaked and
here's one that was kind of hanging over
and it turned almost entirely purple now
these I think are kind of starting to
peter out just a little bit the foliage
is sort of getting a little more brittle
so with bush beans you typically get
your harvest all at once whereas pole
beans will continue to produce you know
longer throughout the season now I've
already picked a lot of beans off of
these so I'm gonna go ahead pick again
and there are a lot of small ones so
I'll probably get a few more pickings
off of these plants before they you know
wrap it up and stop putting off flowers
one thing about our garden is that
whenever we get a lot of rain it tends
to pull up at the end of these walkways
we're planning on putting in some
drainage pipes down here because it's
not really a problem in the summer when
it's wet because like this will be dry
within within a day however in the
spring whenever we're trying to put the
garden in it's just a muddy mess down
here that will probably wait until after
this growing season to try to remedy
that drainage issue here's the Jing
orange okra which is been incredibly
prolific so far
okra blossoms like dry up or well they
don't dry up after they bloom they turn
into like this machine mess on the end
of the pods so it's kind of a gross
thing about growing okra
this has been the one that I've had the
most problems with the pods getting
really big before I could do anything
with them of course like I said I did
not check anything yesterday so this is
really my fault I was prepared to come
out and find some things too big to use
I did spend a good hour and a half or so
in the garden yesterday weeding and
tying up plants but in my mind I felt
like the time that I had was better used
preparing all of my tomato plants - you
know receive a lot of rain rather than
you know picking okras and cucumbers in
that
like at the sunflowers weren't they
wonderful
and I've just let the zinnias go here
because this this little part of my
garden just makes me so happy this is
where Ben picked his tomato the other
day I put a video up of that this is
climbing triple crop which was probably
one of the varieties I was most
anticipate ori about and it has not
disappointed and as a wonderful flavor
has big fruits it has been one of the
first to ripen and not just ripen a
little I mean we've gotten a lot off of
them and they have just I like this
variety I will absolutely grow this
again and again and again and a lot of
it so whereas I was going to wait until
things dried out a little bit to pick
these ones that are pretty close to
being right I'm actually going to go
ahead and pick them before they get way
more rain and split even more you can
see that one got a split that did get a
little yucky inside it didn't get a
chance to scab over so I'm gonna go
ahead and pick these and let them finish
ripening on the windowsill inside of my
kitchen
cucumbers
we had a few to pick here these plants
been struggling a little bit with the
heat this week but they still are
producing some okay I've got quite a few
cherry tomatoes we've been picking this
every day and then they get eaten fresh
however today I think I might actually
have enough to put some in the
dehydrator that is why I grow so many
cherry tomatoes I love them dehydrated
we just cut them in half and throw them
in the dehydrator the sugars caramelize
and they're so good these are wild boar
forms blueberries right here and as you
can see the ones that are in the Sun
they've got a lot more purple on them
than the ones that are hidden there
under the leaves there's some blue gold
berries from wild boar form my camera
died while I was in the middle of
picking cherry tomatoes so I had to go
up to the house and charge it for a
little bit but I did come back with
coffee and a small child we'll see how
this goes so this variety is called Isis
candy and it's actually named after the
goddess in Greek mythology Isis however
obviously with current events and
terrorist groups sharing that name a lot
of seed dealers are going to calling it
candy tomato but it's a cherry none of
these are right it's they're just
starting to turn it gets like orange and
red streaky and it's very very sweet
we've got some pears I've got yellow
pairs and red pears growing however the
red pears have not started to ripen yet
here we have these little they're called
spoon tomatoes this one's not super red
and it will get more red but they are
teeny teeny tyent tiny ones sometimes
they're called current Tomatoes as well
but or teaspoon and the picture usually
shows several of them so there they are
next to the cherry they're they're
really sweet and obviously the kids
really like them just because they're so
small here
a purple bumblebee it's real priest
Street so far these guys here which
they're not these aren't ripe enough to
pick but this has been my favorite of
the small varieties of tomatoes that
I've grown this year it's called Napa
Chardonnay blush it's a wild boar farm
variety and I have really enjoyed it
it's got wonderful flavor here's a
sunrise bumblebee here you want to see
the sunrise bumblebee right here that
red one is called purple bumblebee right
that would yellow pear purple bumblebee
all right go for it is it good these are
principal orgy's which they've been
producing for a good week and a half now
you have one of those that's right
looks like something not on that one a
little bit this is a neat cherry tomato
this is called berries crazy cherry it's
a wild boar farms variety and it's a
multi flora so you see these bunches of
a ton of little flowers turn into
bunches with a ton of little cherry
tomatoes the Sun has come out full force
I know I'm all over the place today I am
gonna go ahead and cut a small bouquet
of these zinnias for my table I've been
leaving a lot of them out here to grow
but just keeping a little mason jar of
them on the table they last about a week
and they're so colorful and beautiful
thank you and cut that one
you let me cut that one just a little
bouquet for the table set them there so
the stems don't get broken I noticed
yesterday that some of the tomatillos
are filling up their husks really nicely
like that's all completely solid means
we're getting really close to ripeness
on some of these I'm really excited
because I've actually never successfully
grown tomatillos before that sunflowers
so pretty here's the jelly melon we've
been checking on every week still no
fruit that seems to be anywhere near
doneness yet so the patty-pan squash is
still doing well actually really well as
you can see I don't think I've had a
squash plant live as long as that one
has and consistently produce as much
I've been very pleased golden Mabry
patty-pan squash who's what that is and
it has been very prolific and undeterred
by the heat and the pests so that's
really good peak here at these
collective farm women no one's all this
one's starting to turn I don't think
it's ready yet but it's definitely
getting more yellow I'm very excited to
try that and over here these banana
melons I mean look at that guy that's
big it weighs a few pounds let's get a
little netting on it I'm honestly not
entirely sure how to tell when this is
ready I've been trying to like read
about it but I haven't found anything
super definite I try
beans are coming in nicely these are
skunk beans and I of the goat
and here is my Incan cream puff squash
which obviously just got a lot of rain
this morning as it heats up throughout
the day this tends to droop a little bit
in fact all of my squashes and cucumbers
are struggling a little bit in the heat
you know we are getting up into the mid
90s every day right now the sun's come
out and even though it was a really cool
morning after a storm where it's already
90 degrees so the plants just have a
hard time with that
shade cloth would be difficult in this
large of a garden because you know this
is pretty much the fence space here is
about 10,000 square feet so so far I've
kind of just been letting them do their
thing and if I notice that something was
going to succumb to the heat I might try
to do something these cucumber plants
down here on the end seem to be doing
pretty well well there's a big one
here are slicers I'll let them get a
little bit bigger and more pickling
cucumbers that got really big I did not
pick them yesterday
fill my apron up with these wow this is
a lot these are the Boston pickling
variety here next to these beans are
these core bocce sweet peppers and look
at that plant it is loaded and those are
going to turn red and continue to curl
up and they get really long and they're
very sweet over here we've got some more
wild unpruned Tomatoes here these are
lima beans and they're coming in nicely
look at this the beans are holding hands
on these trellises Wow look how loaded
that is they just keep producing I
picked so many beans it looks like it's
about time to start picking jalapenos
off of these plants I wasn't sure how
much bigger they were gonna get so I've
been sort of waiting but they don't
appear to be getting a whole lot bigger
so this must not be a very large variety
yeah they're definitely ready to come
off
these scarlet runner beans are dropping
their blossoms pretty heavily because of
the heat they do have some beans on them
but I don't know how many they're gonna
do they are beautiful and they're still
setting a lot of blossoms but a lot of
them are falling off these ancho peppers
are loaded
now you can eat these fresh like
poblanos you can stuff them grill them
they're really good or you can dry them
and grind them into chili powder which
is what I plan on doing and it's why I
planted several of these plants this is
the bed with mint and lemon balm and
various weeds which we've harvested a
ton of lemon balm already but today I'm
going to go ahead and pick some mint and
make some iced tea with it actually was
at the store the other day and I saw a
like a cold drink
that was mint a sweetener with honey and
momentarily I thought oh that sounds
good and I went to grab it and I'm like
what am i doing
I can make that so I've got some mint
leaves I'm gonna brew these in the house
put some honey with it cool it off put
it over ice and see how it is all right
apron full of these big cucumbers when I
have to rearrange my hard to make sure
nothing gets crushed by these big heavy
things
[Music]
a pretty good haul one of the things
that you really have to go through
whenever you plant a large garden is you
have to change your mindset on how you
decide what to eat it's kind of like
that just with the whole farm I mean
right now we have eggs we have a lot of
goat's milk and obviously we have all of
these vegetables that you see growing in
this garden and so we have to make the
conscious decision that we base our
mills around those things I get
surprised how many people say what do
you do with all that food which yeah
there's a lot of food that comes out of
this garden but we have a big family
it's not hard to eat everything you just
have to make the decision really not to
eat anything else the other thing is is
I've just had to change my mind when it
comes to how I'm gonna eat for instance
like I was talking about eating tomato
sandwiches I ate tomato sandwiches
almost every day during this time of
year but then I don't need tomato
sandwiches for the rest of the year
so I look forward to it I don't get sick
of them because I know that before too
long they won't be an option anymore
same thing with fresh squash we're
getting so much of this stuff that I'm
sauteing it and eating it for lunch we
eat it with breakfast I'll eat it with
dinner
I'll eat so much squash that honestly by
the time the squash plants die I don't
mind because I'm sick of eating squash
that's just part of eating seasonally is
you enjoy it because you know you're not
gonna eat it the rest of the year but at
the same time once it's over you're okay
with the fact that it's over you're
ready to move on to the next thing
that's producing so basically it's
really utilizing all of your food it has
just as much to do with mindsets if not
more than it has to do with recipes and
preserving practices it's really
changing your expectations of what your
meals are gonna look like so that you
can enjoy what you have while you have
it thank you guys so much for joining us
on another garden tour I will be back
next weekend posting another walk around
the garden while we look at how
everything is doing
and while we harvest what we have and in
the meantime I'll be posting more videos
with just the daily happenings of the
farm thank you guys so much I just
absolutely love sharing this journey
with you all until next time right
you